 December 13, 1915, Hotel Beau Rivage, Bandol, to J.MMurry: My dear Heart, a week ago today you went. The day seemed very long yesterday. After giving your letter to my ‘bonne’ yesterday I gave up the fight and retired in good order to bed, where I am still. The day seemed very long yesterday but I must say my ‘bonne’ was very good to me. She gave me an extra pillow, kept me supplied with boiling bottles, brought me Vichy, and my meals on a little round table, actually produced a bottle of alcool camphre & frictioned me & gave me some lime flower tea before I went to sleep. Not counting the number of times she put her fat face round the door & said, nodding and smiling as only a Frenchwoman can, with an air of delighted gaiety (!) ‘Vous souffrez toujours’. Shes the only creature I've seen… Kay's money has come and as I am spending nothing else it will be perfectly alright. It is such a beautiful day today. There seems to be a ring of light round everything — It is still and sunny — so still you could hear a spider spin. I dreamed last night that I sat by a fire with Grandmother & my brother & when I woke up I still felt my brother's hand. That is true. For my hands were not together — They were holding another hand — I felt the weight and the warmth of it for quite a long time… (The Collected Letters of Katherine Mansfield, Oxford, 1984: her only brother had been killed in France two months before.) December 13, 1956: Dear Bunny, There are some delightful, first-rate pieces in your book, the one about your father and the first of the two about the Jews, but I am as always distressed by your conception of Russian history, which is all wrong, being based on the stale Bolshevist propaganda which you imbibed in your youth. I cannot understand how you, who appreciate so much Russian writers of the Nineteenth Century, can combine this appreciation with a complete ignorance of the obshchestvennoe dvizhenie (liberal movement) that started in the time of Alexander I, was conspicuously present throughout the century (despite absolutism), and was deliberately played down by the Leninists and Trotskyists for propaganda reasons. We have been always frank with , and I know that you will find my criticism exhilarating. The Nabokov-Wilson Letters 1940-1971, edited by Simon Karlinsky (Weidenfeld & Nicolson, 1979) W. D. CAMPBELL